# CORDIC

CORDIC (COordinate Rotation DIgital Computer) is a hardware-efficient iterative method which uses rotations to calculate a wide range of elementary functions. It is a hardware efficient method because, by implementing CORDIC algorithm, we can use simple shifts and add instead of multiplier etc. to calculate complex trignometric functions such as sine, cosine, tangent, and some inverse trignometric functions also.  In this project, I have  implemented CORDIC to calculate sine and cosine functions.

The key idea behind the algorithm lies in the iterative rotations performed on the input angle inorder to breakdown the input angle into certain various angles. Now, if we select these certain various angles to be of the form 2^(-k) where k = 0 to infinity, then the calculations can be made using simple right or left shifts instead of hardware-straining multipiers. Then afterwards, setting the value of Xin = 1 and Yin = 0, we get the value of cosine as Xout and sine as Yout.

The input angles are stored in the following form: Let the angle be 'x'. Hence we change it to 2^32*(x/360). Let this value come out to be 'y'. Thereafter we chnage y to binary and hence store the angle. The first 2 bits of the angle represents the quadrant of the angle with 00 representing the 1st quadrant, 01 being he 2nd, 10 being the 3rd and 11 being the 4th quadrant. Since this algorithm works only for input angle in the rangle -90 to +90 degrees, we change the angles from other quadrants to the given range.
